CONFIG.TXT
==========

This document discusses installation and configuration issues 
involved when both Borland C++ 5.0 and Borland C++ 4.52 are 
run on the same system.

Borland does not recommend installing both versions 5.0 and 4.52 
on the same system. However, you can do it when absolutely necessary.  
Be forewarned that you cannot safely run both 5.0 and 4.52 
simultaneously at the same time. The problem with doing so
is that the paths required by each product differ.  To run either
compiler version, you'll need to verify the path prior to invocation.  
The path must point to the appropriate \BIN directory
of the version that you plan to use during the session.

The procedure of changing the path and rebooting to switch 
compiler versions is a workable solution, but it may cause some confusion
due to resulting file associations.
 
For example, if you boot a Windows 95 system with both versions installed, 
clicking on the source code icon in the Windows Explorer will invoke 
BC5.0 even if the path specifies BC4.52.  Being Windows 95 compliant, 
BC5.0 is entered into the registry whereas BC4.52, being released prior 
to Windows95, will not appear in the registry.  BC5.0 will start, but will
function poorly because the path points back to BC4.52.  

WARNING:  
It is easy to boot versions of BC from the incorrect path when switching 
paths frequently.  This may cause error messages to occur that you may not 
immediately identify as being related to path problems.  Failing 
to reboot after changing the path can cause similar problems.

To change the path under Windows NT, use Control Panel | System | User 
Environment Variables.  

In Windows 95, you change paths by editing the AUTOEXEC.BAT file located 
in the root directory of the hard drive.  However, repeatedly altering 
AUTOEXEC.BAT increases the possibility of error due to typographic 
and other errors.  

Because of the effort involved in changing paths on either
platform, it is reccommended that a dual 
boot configuration be used on any system running both versions.  Please 
consult the Windows 95 or NT documentation for information 
about adding dual boot capabilities to a system.

