IMPLIB Help

The IMPLIB utility creates import library. IMPLIB takes as input DLLs, module definition files,
or both, and produces an import library as output.
If you've created a Windows application, you've already used at least one import library,
IMPORT32.LIB, the import library for the standard Windows DLLs. (IMPORT.LIB is linked
automatically when you build a Windows application in the IDE and when using BCC32 to link.
You have to explicitly link with IMPORT32.LIB only if you're using TLINK32 to link
separately.)

An import library lists some or all of the exported functions for one or more DLLs. IMPLIB
creates an import library directly from DLLs or from module definition files for DLLs (or a
combination of the two).

Creating an Import Library for a DLL

Options must be lowercase and preceded by either a hyphen or a slash.
Type:

IMPLIB Options LibName [ DefFiles... | DLLs... ] [@ResponseFile]

where Options is an optional list of one or more IMPLIB options, LibName is the name for the
new import library, DefFiles is a list of one or more existing module definition files for one or
more DLLs, and DLLs is a list of one or more existing DLLs. You must specify at least one DLL
or module definition file.
You can also use a response file to list the .DEF and .DLL files that you want to process. A
response file is an ACSII text file that contains a list of files. The files must be separated by
either spaces or new lines in the file. To specify a response file on the command line, precede the
response filename with an "at" sign (@). For example,

implib  foo.lib  @respon.txt

Note:     A DLL can also have an extension of .EXE or .DRV, not just .DLL.

Option    Description

-c   Warnings on case sensitive symbols
-f   Force imports by name
-i   Tells IMPLIB to ignore WEP, the Windows exit procedure required to end a DLL. Use
this option if you are specifying more than one DLL on the IMPLIB command line.
-o   Remove module extensions. (16-bit Windows only)
-w   No warnings.

Copyright   1998 Borland International.